9.
And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that
he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God
should be made manifest in him.
I must work the works of him that sent me while at his day.
The night cometh when no man can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed
the eyes of the blind man with the clay.
And he said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which is by interpretation, sent.
He went his way therefore and washed, and came seeing.
The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him, that he was blind, said, Is
not this he that sat and begged?
Some said, This is he.
Others said, He is like him.
But he said, I am he.
Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay and anointed mine eyes, and
said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.
And I went and washed, and I received sight.
Then said they unto him, Where is he?
He said, I know not.
They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind, and it was the Sabbath day when
Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight.
He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not
the Sabbath day.
Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles?
And there was division among them.
They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes?
He said, He is a prophet.
But the Jews did not believe concerning him that he had been blind and received his sight,
until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.
And they asked them saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind?
How then doth he now see?
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind.
But by what means he now seeth, we know not.
Or who hath opened his eyes, we know not.
He is of age, ask him, he shall speak for himself.
These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had agreed already
that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Therefore said his parents, He is of age, ask him.
Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise,
we know that this man is a sinner.
He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not.
One thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see.
Then said they to him again, What did he to thee, how opened he thine eyes?
He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear.
Wherefore would ye hear it again?
Will ye also be his disciples?
Then they reviled him and said, Thou art his disciple, but we are Moses' disciples.
We know that God spake unto Moses, as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is.
The man answered and said unto them, Why, hearing is a marvellous thing,
that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.
Now we know that God heareth not sinners, but if any man be a worshiper of God and doeth his will,
him he heareth.
Since the world began, was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind?
If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.
They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us?
And they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, he said unto him,
Dost thou believe on the Son of God?
He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?
And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
And he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him.
And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see,
and that they which see might be made blind.
And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words and said unto him, Are we blind also?
Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin.
But now ye say, We see, therefore your sin remaineth.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold,
but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.
But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice,
and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.
And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him,
for they know his voice.
And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers.
This parable spake Jesus unto them, but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them.
Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep.
All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.
The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy.
I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.
But he that is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming,
and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.
The hireling fleeth because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.
As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have which are not of this fold.
Them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice.
And there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.
Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again.
This commandment have I received of my Father.
There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings.
And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad. Why hear ye him?
Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil.
Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?
And it was at Jerusalem, the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.
And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.
Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him,
How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not.
The works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me.
But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish,
neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.
My Father which gave them to me is greater than all,
and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
I and my Father are one.
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.
Jesus answered them, many good works have I showed you from my Father.
For which of these works do ye stone me?
The Jews answered him, saying,
For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy,
and because that thou being a man makest thyself God.
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, ye are gods?
If he called them gods unto whom the word of God came,
and the scripture cannot be broken, say ye of him whom the Father hath sanctified,
and sent into the world thou blasphemest, because I said, I am the Son of God?
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works,
that ye may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in him.
Therefore they sought again to take him, but he escaped out of their hand,
and went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized,
and there he abode.
And many resorted unto him, and said,
John did no miracle, but all things that John spake of this man were true,
and many believed on him there.
John chapter 11.
Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus of Bethany,
the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment,
and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying,
Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
When Jesus heard that, he said,
This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God,
that the Son of God might be glorified thereby.
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
When he had heard therefore that he was sick,
he abode two days still in the same place where he was.
Then after that, saith he to his disciples,
Let us go into Judea again.
His disciples say unto him,
Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee,
and goest thou thither again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day?
If any man walk in the day, he stumbleeth not,
because he seeth the light of this world.
But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleeth,
because there is no light in him.
These things said he, and after that he saith unto them,
Our friend Lazarus sleepeth, but I go that I may awake him out of sleep.
Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.
Howbeit Jesus spake of his death,
but they thought that he had spoken of taking a rest in sleep.
Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead,
and I am glad for your sakes that I was not there,
to the intent ye may believe.
Nevertheless, let us go unto him.
Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus,
unto his fellow disciples,
Let us also go that we may die with him.
Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave
for four days already.
Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem,
about fifteen furlongs off,
and many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary
to comfort them concerning their brother.
Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming,
went and met him, but Mary sat still in the house.
Then said Martha unto Jesus,
Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died,
but I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God,
God will give it thee.
Jesus sayeth unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.
Martha sayeth unto him,
I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection
at the last day.
Jesus said unto her,
I am the resurrection and the life,
he that believeth in me, though he were dead,
yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth
and believeth in me shall never die.
Believest thou this?
She sayeth unto him, Ye Lord,
I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God,
which should come into the world.
And when she had so said, she went her way
and called Mary her sister secretly,
saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee.
As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly
and came unto him.
Now Jesus was not yet come into the town,
but was in that place where Martha met him.
The Jews then, which were with her in the house
and comforted her, when they saw Mary
that she rose up hastily and went out,
followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave
to weep there.
Then when Mary was come where Jesus was,
and saw him, she fell down at his feet,
saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here,
my brother had not died.
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping,
and the Jews also weeping which came with her,
he groaned in the spirit and was troubled,
and said, Where have ye laid him?
They said unto him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him.
And some of them said, Could not this man
which opened the eyes of the blind have caused
that even this man should not have died?
Jesus therefore again groaning in himself
It was a cave and a stone lay upon it.
Jesus said, Take ye away the stone.
Martha, the sister of him that was dead,
saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh,
for he hath been dead for days.
Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee,
that if thou wouldst believe, thou shouldest see
the glory of God?
Then they took away the stone from the place
where the dead was laid.
And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said,
Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.
And I knew that thou hearest me always,
but because of the people which stand by I said it,
that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
And when he thus had spoken,
he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.
And he that was dead came forth,
bound hand and foot with grave clothes,
and his face was bound about with a napkin.
Jesus saith unto him, Loose him and let him go.
Then many of the Jews which came to Mary
and had seen the things which Jesus did,
believed on him.
But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees
and told them what things Jesus had done.
Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees
a council, and said, What do we?
For this man doeth many miracles.
If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him,
and the Romans shall come and take away
both our place and our nation.
And one of them named Caiaphas, being the high priest
that same year, said unto them,
Ye know nothing at all, nor consider that it is expedient
for us that one man should die for the people,
and that the whole nation perish not.
And this spake he not of himself.
But being the high priest that year,
he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation,
and not for that nation only,
but that also he should gather together in one
the children of God that were scattered abroad.
Then from that day forth they took council together
for to put him to death.
Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews,
but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness
into a city called Ephraim,
and there continued with his disciples.
And the Jews' Passover was nigh at hand,
and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem
before the Passover to purify themselves.
Then sought they for Jesus and spake among themselves
as they stood in the temple.
What think ye, that he will not come to the feast?
Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees
had given a commandment,
that if any man knew where he were,
he should show it, that they might take him.
John chapter 12
Then Jesus six days before the Passover
came to Bethany, where Lazarus was,
which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.
There they made him a supper,
and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them
that sat at the table with him.
Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard,
very costly,
and anointed the feet of Jesus,
and wiped his feet with her hair,
and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.
Then saith one of his disciples,
Judas Iscariot, Simon's son,
which should betray him,
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence
and given to the poor?
This he said, not that he cared for the poor,
but because he was a thief and had a bag,
and bare what was put therein.
Then said Jesus, let her alone,
against the day of my burying hath she kept this,
for the poor always ye have with you,
but me ye have not always.
Much people of the Jews therefore knew
that he was there,
and they came not for Jesus' sake only,
but that they might see Lazarus also,
whom he had raised from the dead.
But the chief priests consulted that they might
put Lazarus also to death,
because that by reason of him many of the Jews
went away and believed on Jesus.
On the next day much people that were come to the feast,
when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took branches of palm trees and went forth
to meet him, and cried, Hosanna,
blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name
of the Lord. And Jesus,
when he had found a young ass, sat thereon
as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion,
behold thy king cometh,
sitting on an ass's colt.
These things understood not his disciples
at the first, but when Jesus was glorified,
then remembered they that these things
were written of him, and that they had done
these things unto him.
The people therefore that was with him when he called
Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead,
bear record. For this cause
the people also met him, for that
they heard that he had done this miracle.
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves,
Perceive ye how ye prevail
nothing, behold the world is gone after
him. And there were certain Greeks
among them that came up to worship at the feast.
The same came therefore to Philip,
which was of Bethsaida of Galilee,
and desired him saying, Sir,
we would see Jesus. Philip
cometh and telleth Andrew, and again
Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. And Jesus
answered them saying, The hour
has come that the Son of Man should be glorified.
Verily, verily, I say unto
you, Except a corn of wheat
fall into the ground and die, it abideth
alone. But if it die, it
bringeth forth much fruit.
He that loveth his life shall lose it,
and he that hateth his life in this world
shall keep it unto life eternal.
If any man serve me, let him follow me,
and where I am, there shall also
my servant be. If any man
serve me, him will my father honor.
Now is my soul troubled, and what
shall I say? Father, save me from
this hour? But for this cause
came I unto this hour. Father,
glorify thy name. Then came there
a voice from heaven saying, I have both
glorified it, and will glorify it again.
The people therefore that stood by
and heard it, said that it thundered.
Others said, An angel spake to him.
Jesus answered and said,
This voice came not because of me, but
for your sakes. Now is the judgment
of this world. Now shall the prince of this world
be cast out, and I, if I be
lifted up from the earth, will draw all men
unto me. This he said, signifying
what death he should die.
The people answered him, We have heard out of
the law that Christ abideth forever,
and how sayest thou the Son of Man must be
lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?
Then Jesus said unto them, Get
a little while is the light with you.
Walk while ye have the light, lest
darkness come upon you. For he that walketh
in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.
While ye have light, believe in the light,
that ye may be the children of light.
These things spake Jesus, and
departed, and did hide himself from
them. But though he had done so many
miracles before them, yet they believed not on
him. That the saying of Isaias the
prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake,
Lord, who hath believed our report,
and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been
revealed? Therefore they could not believe,
because that Isaias said again,
He hath blinded their eyes and
hardened their heart, that they should not see with
their eyes, nor understand with their heart,
and be converted, and I should heal them.
These things said Isaias, when he saw his
glory, and spake of him. Nevertheless,
among the chief rulers, also many
believed on him. But because of the
Pharisees, they did not confess him, lest
they should be put out of the synagogue.
For they loved the praise of men, more than the praise
of God. Jesus cried and said,
He that believeth on me, believeth
not on me, but on him that sent me.
And he that seeth me, seeth
him that sent me. I am come a
light into the world, that whosoever believeth
on me, should not abide in darkness.
And if any man hear my words, and
believe not, I judge him not.
For I came not to judge the world, but to save
the world. He that rejecteth me,
and receiveth not my words, hath one
that judgeth him. The word that I have
spoken, the same shall judge him in the
last day. For I have not spoken
of myself, but the Father which sent
me. He gave me a commandment, what I should
say, and what I should speak.
And I know that his commandment is life everlasting.
Whatsoever I speak therefore,
even as the Father said unto me,
so I speak.